And Mr. Briggs) -- or men, like Jones and Jackson?
That they should stick to liquors so injurious --
But what is coffee, but a noxious berry,
Is, and shall be, my appetite for food.
Precious to me -- it is the Dinner Bell.
But on one statement I may safely venture:
They had their May, but no Mayfair as yet,
And wished that lyre could yet again be strung
Shall days and months and years and centuries pass,
That home-returning, I may "soothly say,"
Sang hymns to Ceres (their John Barleycorn)
Some say the Gaelic mixture, I the Saxon:
O Beer! O Hodgson, Guinness, Allsopp, Bass!
Or "Casta Diva," I have heard that then
Pan with his pipes, and Bacchus with his leopards,
I was not born (alas!) the "Muses' minion,"
That the real beverage for feasting gods on
And on Cithæron's brow the reaper turned,
I know a man -- a tailor's son -- who rose
With all the lustre of the dying day,
And still your merits be unrecked, unsung?
Recruits her flagging powers with bottled stout.
But vile concoctions to make dull heads ache?
To those brown dwellers in my dusty shelves,
I go. One pound of British beef, and then
And Lycidas and sorrow all forgot!
Thou bringest good things more than tongue may tell:
Whoe'er he is that entertains the view
Such as dyspepsia might make attacks on?
Sponsor at last to some now nameless sea.
And danced unchaperoned, and laughed unchecked,
Oh! when the green slopes of Arcadia burned
A soft and silvery sound -- I know it well.
In two short seconds he'd have recked it not;
But hark! a sound is stealing on my ear --
In those old days which poets say were golden --
At that soft moment for a pewter pot!
When "Dulce est desipere in loco"
Then nectar -- was that beer, or whisky-toddy?
Had they digestions? and an actual body
Tea did for Johnson and the Chinamen:
Is not a thing your reading man should take.
How had the mists that dimmed his eye been riven,
(Though in his Memoirs it may not appear,)
Was written, real Falernian winged the pen.
Nay stout itself -- (though good with oysters, very) --
(As Gilpin said) "the middle of my song."
(Perhaps they laid the gilding on themselves:
Is a soft compound, grateful to the nose
Oh! I have gazed into my foaming glass,
And also to the palate, known as "Hodgson."
Nor smote a billiard-ball, nor winged a pheasant,
That that man owed his rise to copious Beer.
Nor -- most astonishing of all -- drank Beer.
Nor "did" her hair by means of long-tailed combs,
Or else I should not tax your patience long:
That poor young Lycidas was gone to glory:)
I was unlucky -- sinned against, not sinning --
That few of our most highly gifted men
(Humming, of course, in his delightful way,
And were no doubt extremely incorrect.
When no one smoked cigars, nor gave At-homes,
If I had said "beginning," it might do;
What is Falernian, what is Port or Sherry,
And oft, I own, my "wayward fancy roams"
Misguided sons that the best drink was water.
Back to those times, so different from the present;
Born to keep used-up Londoners awake?
Hath one unfailing remedy -- the Tankard.
O blessed Bell! Thou bringest beef and beer,
Got on without it, is a startling question.
How Lycidas was dead, and how concerned
Not that "the middle" is precisely true,
Has always struck me as extremely curious.
If his own grandmother had died unshriven,
Who talk to me "in language quaint and olden"
Which once rang prophet-like through Greece, and taught her
And how rock told to rock the dreadful story
The Prima Donna, smiling herself out,
Were they abstract ideas -- (like Tom Noddy
In those old days, the Nymph called Etiquette
I think a strict adherence to the latter
He that would shine, and petrify his tutor,
The Nymphs were when they saw his lifeless clay;
And staid young goddesses who flirt with shepherds:)
(Wine, water, tempered p'raps with Attic salt) --
What would that lone and labouring soul have given,
Its tinkling tells me that a time is near
And artful beverage, Beer. How the digestion
Have more appreciation of their trencher.
And, if they did, I'm all the more beholden
And sing -- as would that I could sing -- of you!
Might make some Scots less pigheaded, and fatter.
When Cowper wrote down "middle" for "beginning."
But I have a dislike to quoting wrong:
When a rapt audience has encored "Fra Poco"
And he, we know, but strives with waxen pinion,
(Appalling thought to dwell on) was not born.
Just as they pleased they dressed and drank and ate,
Such power hath Beer. The heart which Grief hath cankered
No, they did not drink Beer, "which brings me to"
"Fate cannot touch me: I have dined to-day."
Of emulating Pindar, and will be
Besides, Bon Gaultier definitely shows
Coffee is good, and so no doubt is cocoa;
I'm not poetical, not even blue:
So to proceed. That abstinence from Malt
Nor migrated to Brighton once a year,
Seared is, of course, my heart -- but unsubdued
The Greek mind must have had some vital fault,
How would he now recant that wild opinion,
No fashions varying as the hues of morn.
Should drink draught Allsopp in its "native pewter."
Of gods and demigods and fauns and elves,
To be a peer: and this I would lay odds on,
I go. Untaught and feeble is my pen:
What Mr. Swiveller called a "modest quencher";
Yet do I think their theory was pleasant:
Names that should be on every infant's tongue!
And not at once invent that mild, luxurious,